Or continuing on with the code from the last video.
You might be asking next, how do I say counts by pit type and not just dogs?
Obviously, you do not want to have to write a different statement for each pet type, each with a different
filter, getting count by pet type.
Well, this is actually a job for the collectors dog grouping by method.
Let's have a look at that.
And it's a pencil code to our main method.
And again, we're in stream group in Java.
Except that import.
I'm going to cover the grouping by method in more detail in a bit, but suffice it to say here that
the first statement groups by the Pitts type counting pitts' by pit type.
So factually wrong this now we can see they are put there.
And obviously your results may look different because we're using a random function.
So if I read this again, you see I get a different result.
You can do the work of both statements in one stream pipeline if you do not need to use the information
in any other way.
No assignment to local variable dated.
Let's have a go to replacing the code and we'll do it another way.
Sort of replaces code here as follows if we run this.
So the outputs the same as last time, other than the fact that the numbers are different because of
the fact that we're using random here.
I think you can see now that streams effectively turn your data sets in Java into query about tables
or views and the streaming collectors' methods combined of your features somewhat equivalent to siecle
commands.
So let's actually try a few more examples here or more cardie except the import.
So looking at this code, I'm crewing the data getting the average age of a pit by state and by pit
type and collecting the information into a map.
So look at the grouping by methods.
First argument.
In the previous example I passed, it was a it on pet, but in this example I'm passing it multiple
attributes, method references on pet using a list generated by race track list.
So this results in a map whose key is a list of attributes.
In addition, I'm using the averaging into method as the second parameter to grouping by and passing
this method.
The Pet Age attribute.
A map is returned and now I can specifically query the map for the information I want in this case about
the average age of a dog in the state of Colorado.
That's the CEO abbreviation.
So if we run this now.
We can see the output at the bottom of the screen now, it could have written it as a single stream
pipeline, but I wanted to show you how to connect into a map with a multi-dimensional key and how to
access data from the map returned from the pipeline operations.
Let's look at another example.
Pist is covered in this kind of similar to the previous example, but here I do use a single stream
pipeline to get counterspy by state and type, then sort the data using a multi-dimensional key in the
comparator lambda expression, and then finally to make the output a bit smaller, a filter, it just
dog and cat types.
So if we run this, we can see that the dataset was sorted and filtered accordingly.
The collective grouping method allows you to specify a more specific type you want your data to be collected
into.
Let's have a look at that.
It's going to post McHardy
except import.
So here what I'm doing is I removed the sorted operation in the pipeline and instead of specified,
I want data to be collected into a tree map, which, if you recall, is a sorted map.
So if we run this now.
It's clear that our collection is sorted without any additional work or specification on my part.
What do you use this mechanism on the example where I collect the average age of a pit grouped by multiple
attributes, in the first example, I created a map with a key that was a list of the attributes which
showed a flattened view of the average ages.
In this example that I'm about to paste in and create a map with a nested map allowing me to keep a
hierarchical view of averages within pit types within states.
For example, let's have a look at that postcard in.
So here, my local variable is a map, a tree map keyed by a string picked out state, and the value
was another map tree map also keyed by a string type with a value of long.
They can have pets by pet type and state.
So if we run this now.
And there's the output now that's a nice representation of the data, right, as long as the case is
string's or comparables and a specified trebeck result, sorting is built in.
Finally, there's another static method on collections called Collectors', not partitioning the partitions
stream into a map of two Cege.
True or false, you pass a predicate to the method which then generates a map.
That's the principle code to our method.
So here I'm creating a local variable.
Dogs are not dogs, which is of the top map boolean.
Then a list of pet objects which are top dog go into the true bucket and all others go into the false
bucket.
I use the resulting map to retrieve the list of just dogs and print the first five running this.
We can see the output at the bottom of the screen there.
Now what a posted some more code and we'll ask you a question.
What does this code do?
There's a code.
Well, instead of collecting the pet population into a list of dog pet objects and the list of other
pet objects, this one collects the pet population into a map that lists the can of pets by the veterinary
practice.
They run this now.
We see the output at the bottom of the screen.
The table below lists a few of the methods I've been reviewing in this video and the previous one so
that you can see the signatures keeping in mind that these submitted signatures are simplified.
So looking at the collectors grouping and petitioning methods, keep in mind that all returned collector,
which can be used in the collect method or trained in these methods, first of all, we've got is scraping
by, which accepts a function that allows you to buy a function which is often a method of reference
for a getter on an object.
The result is a collection of elements grouped by the specified attribute, for example.
We've got grouping by, again, overloaded.
This one takes two parameters, a function and a collector, and it allows you to group by a function,
but to use an additional reduction or grouping collector to do some aggregate operations, like getting
a total sum average, et cetera.
The next grouping by method has three parameters function, supplier and collector, and it allows you
to group by a function specifying the type of the collection which the data will be returned to and
use a reduction or grouping collector to do some aggregate operations.
Again, like getting a title with some an average cetera.
Next, petitioning by with a parameter of predicate and allows you to create a map of a boolean and
a list of type T based on some bifocal view of the data.
Next, we have petitioning by which has got two parameters.
The overlayed version, a predicate and a collector.
And it allows you to create a map which is a boolean, an object of type T based on some bifurcated
view of the data and using a reduction or grouping or any other collector to return a ResultSet.
All right, so this video and the previous one covered a lot of ground, but I hope I've introduced
you to the enormous possibilities offered by the combinations of the stream and collectors classes using
a stream pipeline, the exam.
We'll expect you to be familiar with many of the same methods and the most commonly used collectors.
Let's move on now to the next video.